hello everyone and welcome back to
another minecraft snapshot update video
it is 20 wo 7a and I have a great news
some new renewable materials like quartz
and obsidian thanks to the pigley in the
new mop which you can barter with to get
materials making them renewable and we
are gonna have a proper look at the new
pickle in mob in this video but first of
all I got to share this with you if you
bring them to the overworld they start
to shake and tremor and then they turn
into zombie Pigman that's hilarious so
while we look over the patch notes here
I have some additional information about
biomes of beds and boats inside at the
never straight from the mouth of the
developers of them selfs estate hoon to
the end of the video if you want to find
out the fate of these things but as you
can see a whole bunch of new features
and the first thing we're gonna check
out is the nether right beacon so I
apologize if this is a little bit
anticlimactic but yes the nether right
block works with the beacon but no
special features you can see the GUI has
been updated over here to support the
nether right and you can use it to you
know change the settings to whatever you
want but there are no additional perks
and you know I think Maria have missed
an opportunity here to do something
really cool with this very expensive
block otherwise there is literally no
reason you'd want to use the nether
right block in a beacon so this snapshot
is all about the hog line and the pig
line this one has been given some
functionality and now we have a new mob
that we can trade with the only other
mob to receive Cermak changes is the
Enderman and if we have a look at these
ones here you'll see that they're now
holding some new blocks and that's
because their loot tables have been
updated they are no longer going to be
able to pick up nether AK however they
will be able to pick up the crimson
funghi no Liam and roots and then the
Warped equivalent of those free blocks
so with that out of the way let's talk
about the first of these two mobs the
hog Lane it's natural spawning
environment is the crimson forest which
is actually the same of the pig Lane as
well so they spawn in the same
environment together now they have an
interesting aggressive behavior where
they will only attack you if
they have a line of sight we view the
player so if you're standing behind
glass they're not going to attack you
until there is a direct line of sight
now if you break this line of sight and
go behind a wall behind the glass again
then they become unaggressive and just
go back to their normal behavior they
are also a rather tough mob they have
double the health of a player so they
have twenty hearts and they will attack
for between three to four and a half
hearts of damage when you are playing in
hard mode so they are a mob to be
handled with care now you were to kill
them they simply drop lever and pork
chops upon death the lever is a little
rarer the pork chop is more common also
the baby hobbling is really cute and
adorable what I love about this mob is
that it can barely do any damage - yeah
it does half a heart damage and
sometimes when it attacks you it doesn't
even do any damage at all now there is a
way to keep an aggressive hog line at
bay that is to simply be near a warped
funghi this has a repellent effect on
the mob that seems to be about a radius
of 12 blocks from where it's placed if
you hold it in your hand it's not as
effective but if you place one down on
the ground it'll cause the hick Hoglund
to flee and to no longer be aggressive
now it's the Crimson funghi that you use
to breed these mobs together so let's go
ahead and do that you would have to do
this while they're aggressive but then
they're still aggressive while they're
breeding which is just crazy I've also
given myself resistance like and stay
alive here but yes this is how they
breed and eventually this should make a
baby ah and there we go there's the
little guy
so yeah breeding Hoagland's is gonna be
a dangerous activity and there's
probably not much reward for it
considering they dropped lever and pork
chops so I doubt anyone's gonna be doing
this anytime soon now according to the
patch notes hog lines will sometimes get
hunted down by pig lines
however they are apparently an ecosystem
they live together side by side and
actually we're going to see in action
here which is fantastic now they only
start to hunt the hog Lin when they go
hungry
and as you can see they also hunt in
packs I've been waiting around for a
while here spawning them in and not
actually seen that happen before so
sometimes they're in harmony
well when the pickling get hungry they
will go after the hog lines it also says
that baby hog Lin and pickling will play
together this is about the most of that
that I've seen they just seem to stand
near one another and look at each other
which is cute and adorable and also you
don't have to fear the baby pig Lin
because they don't attack you the player
and just to show you that here I am in
survival you can see the pic Lin's are
they're cute and adorable but they don't
attack me okay it's time for a closer
look at the pig Lin and why isn't it
being aggressive towards me you're about
to find out but anyway I'm just gonna
say if you're enjoying the video and
you're not subscribed then make sure to
do that and catch these snapshot update
videos when they come out so why is the
pig Lin not aggressive to me right now
it's because they love gold as you can
see some of them actually spawn with
gold armor they can also carry gold
swords and then sometimes they spawn
with crossbows as well now if you are
wearing pieces of gold Armour you will
blend in and they will not become
aggressive so let's see how much gold
armor
it actually takes I haven't done this
before we're doing it together live okay
maybe just one piece is that all it
takes one piece of armor okay now
they're coming after me no I changed my
mind you could just put it straight back
on that's amazing I like this
now the patch notes describes the pig
lines as an aggressive civilization that
live in the nether and that they mostly
hang around in these crimson forests
however they can also spawn in the
nether wastes which is the original
never biome and after some investigation
I found out that they had eight hearts
of health so they're a little bit weaker
than other mobs as you can see though
they'd like to run away from zombie
pigmen which are currently being
referred to as zombie pig Lin's however
they haven't changed their name inside
of the game yet so the zombie pigmen
might be renamed to a zombified pig Lin
in the future yes as you can see here
the pig
not so keen and they run away from these
ones now we've already seen this but I
want to see the behavior again the pig
Lin attack in groups so once one of them
is after you they kind of crowd together
like this and then attack in a group
although it seems like they're trying to
decide between me and the hog line at
the moment so yes here we go I'm gonna
be ambushed by these big Lin now ah
there we go I got one of these skeletons
to accidentally attack a pig Lin and the
hell the pig Lin's are going after the
skeletons instead so they can be
aggressive up more mobs than just the
player and the hog Lin now there is a
mob that they are known for not getting
along with and that is the wither
skeleton so I'm gonna plop one down over
here and see what happens are they gonna
go after it yes look at that they attack
with the skeletons it kind of looks like
the wither skeleton didn't attack back
that time Oh No yep they definitely
attack back
so this pig Lin is a special pickling it
is holding an enchanted sword that has
looting level I don't know 9,000 on it
and I want to put it in here with a
wither skeleton it seems like it takes a
while to notice the guy
but will it dropper with a skeleton
skull there we go
so the looting effect works I can see
that there are bones and coal but did we
get a skull well from that test we
didn't do you know what I think I'm
gonna have to save this one for an
episode of myth-busting look that guys
in there don't matter how many wither
skeletons are around him seems like he's
pretty slow to realize they're there now
the pig Lin have even more interesting
attributes it says that they will be
distracted by gold items and that was
the pottering feature that we're about
to see in a moment and look at it this
guy loves it he loves his gold ingot now
I was wondering would they go for some
of these other items as well yep they
like golden apples they probably loved
not chapels and I'm gonna guess they're
a fan of golden carrots yep they will
they will take that golden carrot away
now you might have guessed it I'm
wearing my gold Armour however if I mine
a gold block
this will make them aggressive bad idea
another thing you can do to upset these
creatures is simply open a chest and
once again they're aggressive at me I've
just learned a couple of things when
they pick up items they can ditch their
weapons which is possibly a way to
pacify them and then when they die they
also drop those gold items that they're
holding back onto the ground now that
will even work after you've bartered
with them so this guy is giving me a
crimson funghi and then I kill him and I
get the gold ingot back very cruel so
what's left it's just the bartering
system which we've already seen in
action we throw a gold ingot at the
zombie pigmen and they throw something
back in return
now you might know it's possible to make
a very powerful gold farm in this game
using zombie pigmen and you can automate
the creation of gold ingots then you
could simply do something like this
feed it to the pigment and then have
some hoppers pick up the items that they
throw back no player interaction
involved here at all and the pickling
like don't have a GUI you can't interact
with them you just simply throw them
gold and you'll get something back at
random so after about 10 to 15 minutes
this is why I've gone in return now had
a look at the loot table and the way the
loot table works is it divides it into
three categories this one has a weight
of one a weight of 2 5 and 10 I said
free categories it was for the higher
the way the more likely you are to get
it now they've got an equal chance
inside of this group they will win a
weight of 10 and then you get a random
amount of those items so between 1 and 4
for the mushrooms free and 8 for the
Flint and 4 to 12 for right flesh but
I'm not gonna go for each of these
individually I'm just gonna hang over
here and you can pause the screen if you
want to look at all the numbers I will
comment on one or two of them for
example gravel over here this makes
gravel renewable you don't have to
extract it from the world and damage the
environment and yes it'd be very grainy
to get a lot of it also the same could
be said of soul sand as well then over
here some more valuable items in the
weight to category and in weight one
farmable obsidian
and farmable quartz also have no idea
why warped million is in here but it is
but yes that means renewable quartz
renewable obsidian now the catch is that
you're gonna get hardly any of it I mean
I've got none so far so it's technically
a renewable but you need to set up a
really large-scale farm to get a lot of
these materials and so that is
everything to know about the hog line'
and the pickling for now i'll also
mention that they are included in the
monsters hunted and monster hunter
achievement as well nice to see mo yang
getting on top of that before we talk
about their plans for the future of this
update I'd also just like to point out a
couple of things so first of all so
lanterns and fire torches now attached
to walls and so will string like they
did before cause the changes they made
to wall seems to disrupt that the
lantern was also not animated so now the
soul Lantern is animated like the
regular Lantern is and also an
observation I made is that the new types
of fence post don't attach to the old
types and I also learned that the blue
fire doesn't spread so this was of
course introduced in the last snapshot
just keeping you informed with
everything that I'm learning so thanks
to this live stream from the developers
of the game themselves on the official
minecraft channel I've learned some
other things about their plans for 1.16
and we're going to go through them one
by one so first of all beds according to
the developers will still explode in the
nether they hinted it it may be having
other functionality at Minecon but
having fought it all through now they've
decided to just keep it how it is the
really sad news is that we've seen all
of the new biomes apparently there are
going to be no new ones added this is it
just free new biomes which I've got to
say I'm a little bit disappointed about
again at Minecon they said that there
would be more but maybe they took their
time working on the biomes they had then
and didn't have time for another one who
knows now they also answered questions
from the chat and there was someone
asking about nether boats quite a few
people have been floating this idea that
perhaps the new feira system would could
be used as boats in the nether
well they suggested that you simply
upvote it on the feedback website
and there is actually gonna be a link to
this in the description box down below
if you want to go and upvote this post
because they said they decided to work
on the nether update because it was the
most voted one on the website and
currently the most voted one right here
is the cave update so use the feedback
website to tell Mary Aang what you want
and who knows this could mean that the
next update might be a cave update for
Minecraft now given that this was a
casual livestream with the mo yang
developers maybe not everything they say
is an official statement so who knows
some of those things could be subject to
change another thing they hinted at as
well was no new enchantments in this
1.16 update and I can't help but feel
that we may have actually seen most of
the content for this update in the first
two snapshots but of course I'm going to
keep my ear to the ground and continue
to cover these snapshots on this channel
so we're gonna get into the bug fixes
next I also forgot to mention that soul
soil will work for spawning a river as
you can see right here anyways let's get
to those bugs I'm in 1.15 point 2 right
now to show you how this used to look so
mushrooms for some reason appear in as
green dots on the map now all of these
are infested stone blocks which means
they've got silverfish inside of them
and if you blow these up with TNT no
silverfish will spawn which has been
considered a bug here in a 1.16 our
mushrooms are back to normal and there's
our silver fish from a TNT explosion now
if you saw the last snapshot you'll know
that we discovered items are not burning
in fire that ones have been taken care
of also if you're on a multiplayer
server any player can walk up to a dog
and change its sitting stats this has
been considered a bug only the owner of
the dog like myself will be able to do
that now also if you were to take a
renamed book and enchant it you would
lose the name of the book but here in
1.16 you're gonna keep the name so I'm
bouncing on a slime block why is this
significant well something to do with
the timing and the way this was done
previously meander you and actually get
bounced up when on slime block like this
so that's a fix right there another one
in this update is placing armor stands
on top of fence posts now because of
their hip box those armor stands would
usually just fall down inside of the
block and that is no longer going to
happen they actually sit right on top of
it which kind of looks like they're
floating and I like that now we're in a
snowy environment as there's been a few
changes to snow golems so first of all
if you had to carve it with some shears
or sorry cheer its head off it makes a
sound and drops the carved pumpkin which
it wasn't doing before another bug with
its sound if it attacks another mob
which is doing right there it's now
actually playing the snowball sound as
opposed to the arrow sound which it was
doing before they were also erroneously
taking damage when it would snow inside
of a snowy biome obviously that makes no
sense that one's been patched as well
and so my friends that brings us to the
end of this snapshot video if you have
enjoyed it please do leave a like it
supports the channel as always thank you
for doing that
and if you didn't see last week's
snapshot video then you gotta check it
out it was a huge hit here on the
channel and I can't thank you all enough
for supporting me helping me do what I
do right here covering these snapshots I
very much enjoy and I really like the
new mobs the hot linen in the pickling
are pretty cool what do you think of
them let me know over comment down below
but anyway that's it thanks for watching
see you later bye bye